Updates to v0.36 release notes - part 2 (#5573)
PennyLaneAI/pennylane: doc/releases/changelog-0.36.0.md

  This function is intended for developers and will be removed in a future release without a
  deprecation cycle.
  [(#5309)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5309)

* The `qml.is_commuting` function now accepts `Sum`, `SProd`, and `Prod` instances.
  [(#5351)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5351)

* Operators can now be left-multiplied by NumPy arrays (i.e., `arr * op`).
  [(#5361)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5361)

* `op.generator()`, where `op` is an `Operator` instance, now returns operators 
  consistent with the global setting for `qml.operator.active_new_opmath()` wherever possible. 
  `Sum`, `SProd` and `Prod` instances will be returned even after disabling the 
  new operator arithmetic in cases where they offer additional functionality not 
  available using legacy operators.
  [(#5253)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5253)
  [(#5410)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5410)
  [(#5411)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5411)
  [(#5421)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5421)

> * `Prod` instances temporarily had a new `obs` property, which helped smoothen the 

Reviewer: @trbromley this was an interesting entry in the changelog lol. How does it read?

  
* `qml.ApproxTimeEvolution` is now compatible with any operator that has a defined `pauli_rep`.
  [(#5362)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5362)

* `Hamiltonian.pauli_rep` is now defined if the hamiltonian is a linear combination of Pauli operators.
  [(#5377)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5377)

* `Prod` instances created with qutrit operators now have a defined `eigvals()` method.
  [(#5400)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5400)

* `qml.transforms.hamiltonian_expand` can now handle multi-term observables with a constant offset (i.e., terms like `qml.I()`).
  [(#5414)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5414)

* `qml.qchem.taper_operation` is now compatible with the new operator arithmetic.
  [(#5326)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5326)

* The warning for an observable that might not be hermitian in QNode executions has been removed. This enables jit-compilation.
  [(#5506)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5506)

* `qml.transforms.split_non_commuting` will now work with single-term operator arithmetic.
  [(#5314)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5314)

> * `LinearCombination` and `Sum` now accept `_grouping_indices` on initialization. This addition is relevant to developers only. 

Reviewer: This ok? Feels like an entry that won't be relevant to users, so I left it kind of vague and added "this is for developers"

  [(#5524)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5524)

* Calculating the dense, differentiable matrix for `PauliSentence` and operators with Pauli sentences
  is now faster.
  [(#5578)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5578)

<h4>Community contributions 🥳</h4>

* `ExpectationMP`, `VarianceMP`, `CountsMP`, and `SampleMP` now have a 
  `process_counts` method (similar to `process_samples`). This allows for 
  calculating measurements given a `counts` dictionary.
  [(#5256)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5256)
  [(#5395)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5395)

* Type-hinting has been added in the `Operator` class for better interpretability.
  [(#5490)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5490)

* An alternate strategy for sampling with multiple different `shots` values has 
  been implemented via the `shots.bins()` method.

>   [(#5476)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5476)

Reviewer: These changelog entries weren't clear so I changed them quite a bit. Would be good to have a second look here to make sure I understood the impact of the features and conveyed it properly :)

<h4>Mid-circuit measurements and dynamic circuits</h4>

* Added a `qml.capture` module that will contain PennyLane's own capturing mechanism for hybrid
  quantum-classical programs.
  [(#5509)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5509)

* The `dynamic_one_shot` transform is introduced enabling dynamic circuit execution on circuits with shots and devices that support `MidMeasureMP` operations natively.
  [(#5266)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5266)

* The `QubitDevice` class and children classes support the `dynamic_one_shot` transform provided that they support `MidMeasureMP` operations natively.

>   [(#5317)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5317)

Reviewer: Can I smush 5317 and 5266 into the same changelog entry?

  [(#5395)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5395)

* Type-hinting has been added in the `Operator` class for better interpretability.
  [(#5490)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5490)

* An alternate strategy for sampling with multiple different `shots` values has 
  been implemented via the `shots.bins()` method.
  [(#5476)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5476)

<h4>Mid-circuit measurements and dynamic circuits</h4>

* A new module called `qml.capture` that will contain PennyLane's own capturing mechanism for hybrid
  quantum-classical programs has been added.
  [(#5509)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5509)

* The `dynamic_one_shot` transform has been introduced, enabling dynamic circuit 
  execution on circuits with finite `shots` and devices that natively support 
  mid-circuit measurements.
  [(#5266)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5266)

* The `QubitDevice` class and children classes support the `dynamic_one_shot` transform provided that they support `MidMeasureMP` operations natively.
  [(#5317)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5317)

> * `"default.qubit"` can now take a provided random seed for sampling mid-circuit 

Reviewer: this ok?

  measurements with finite shots. This (1) ensures that random behaviour is more 
  consistent with `dynamic_one_shot` and `defer_measurements` and (2) makes our 
  continuous-integration (CI) have less failures due to stochasticity.

>   [(#5337)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5337)

Reviewer: this ok?

  This function is intended for developers and will be removed in a future release without a
  deprecation cycle.
  [(#5309)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5309)

* The `qml.is_commuting` function now accepts `Sum`, `SProd`, and `Prod` instances.
  [(#5351)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5351)

* Operators can now be left-multiplied by NumPy arrays (i.e., `arr * op`).
  [(#5361)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5361)

* `op.generator()`, where `op` is an `Operator` instance, now returns operators 
  consistent with the global setting for `qml.operator.active_new_opmath()` wherever possible. 
  `Sum`, `SProd` and `Prod` instances will be returned even after disabling the 
  new operator arithmetic in cases where they offer additional functionality not 
  available using legacy operators.
  [(#5253)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5253)
  [(#5410)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5410)
  [(#5411)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5411)
  [(#5421)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5421)

> * `Prod` instances temporarily had a new `obs` property, which helped smoothen the 
>   transition of the new operator arithmetic system. In particular, this was aimed at preventing 
>   breaking code that uses `Tensor.obs`. This has been immediately deprecated. Moving 
>   forward, we recommend using `op.operands`.

Author: ```suggestion
* `Prod` instances temporarily have a new `obs` property, which helps smoothen the 
  transition of the new operator arithmetic system. In particular, this is aimed at preventing 
  breaking code that uses `Tensor.obs`. The property has been immediately deprecated. Moving 
  forward, we recommend using `op.operands`.
```
@isaacdevlugt this should be present tense

  [(#5539)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5539)
  
* `qml.ApproxTimeEvolution` is now compatible with any operator that has a defined `pauli_rep`.
  [(#5362)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5362)

> * `Hamiltonian.pauli_rep` is now defined if the hamiltonian is a linear combination of Pauli operators.

Author: ```suggestion
* `Hamiltonian.pauli_rep` is now defined if the Hamiltonian is a linear combination of Pauli operators.
```

* `LightningVJPs` is now compatible with Lightning devices using the new device API.
  [(#5469)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5469)

<h4>Device capabilities</h4>

* Obtaining classical shadows using the `default.clifford` device is now compatible with
  [stim](https://github.com/quantumlib/Stim) `v1.13.0`.
  [(#5409)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5409)

* `default.mixed` has improved support for sampling-based measurements with non-NumPy interfaces.
  [(#5514)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5514)
  [(#5530)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5530)

* `default.mixed` now supports arbitrary state-based measurements with `qml.Snapshot`.
  [(#5552)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5552)

* `null.qubit` has been upgraded to the new device API and has support for all 
  measurements and various modes of differentiation.
  [(#5211)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5211)

<h4>Other improvements</h4>

* Entanglement entropy can now be calculated with 
  `qml.math.vn_entanglement_entropy`, which computes the von Neumann 

>   entanglement entropy from a density matrix. A corresponding a QNode transform,

Author: ```suggestion
  entanglement entropy from a density matrix. A corresponding QNode transform,
```

  and will be added again in the next release.
  [(#5612)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5612)

* `qml.counts` now returns the same keys with `dynamic_one_shot` and `defer_measurements`.
  [(#5587)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5587)

* `null.qubit` now automatically supports any operation without a decomposition.
  [(#5582)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5582)

* Fixed a bug where the shape and type of derivatives obtained by applying a gradient transform to
  a QNode differed based on whether the QNode uses classical coprocessing.
  [(#4945)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/4945)

> 

Reviewer: Hey @vincentmr! Can you explain what's going on in https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5529? I'm a little confused 😅 (this is line 699 in the changelog)

Reviewer 2: Non-computational-basis measurements require applying diagonalization operators to the state. This is done via `rotations` on some device, but not Lightning. For some measurements (e.g. `expval`) the Lightning devices applies the diag operators itself, but not for `probs`, and this has to be done on the PennyLane side. This was not done previously, and hence non-computational-basis observables would lead to incorrect measurement results. This will all go away after the port to the new device API.

* The `QNSPSAOptimizer` now properly handles differentiable parameters, resulting in being able to use it for more than one optimization step.
  [(#5439)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5439)

* The QNode interface now resets if an error occurs during execution.
  [(#5449)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5449)

* Failing tests due to changes with Lightning's adjoint diff pipeline have been fixed.
  [(#5450)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5450)

> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

* The `QNSPSAOptimizer` now properly handles differentiable parameters, resulting in being able to use it for more than one optimization step.
  [(#5439)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5439)

* The QNode interface now resets if an error occurs during execution.
  [(#5449)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5449)

* Failing tests due to changes with Lightning's adjoint diff pipeline have been fixed.
  [(#5450)](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/pull/5450)

> Context: When Torch has a GPU backed data-buffer, failures can occur when attempting to make autoray-dispatched calls to Torch method with paired CPU data. In this case, for probabilities on the GPU, and eigenvalues on the host (read from the observables), failures appeared with qml.dot, and can be reproduced from:

Author: @isaacdevlugt what's going on here?

Reviewer: Oh oops! I copy-pasted in some github PR comments from #5438 to help me re-word the entry

```suggestion
```
